Hello again, you superb got to people in this video, we're getting it moving with Mouse look, working
right now we have mouse look and we have a moving.
But you remember we have that problem.
And I'll just show you right now, if I press play, if I'm facing the global forward move, it works
fine at the moment.
I look in another direction.
I'm pressing forward right now.
And that isn't what this is, me pressing backwards.
Right.
We can't have the game behave like this as you see it too confusing.
So what I need to do is to get that where the camera is in relation to the player and make that work.
So here's what we're doing.
We are going to separate 2D and 3D movement.
Why?
Because I only want the controls to affect the character in two dimensions.
So I need to separate those out.
Calculate them and then bring them back in.
And I also need to apply that 2D movement based on where the camera is.
So let's get back into the game.
Well, the engine and I want to play a script and give us a platform to work for somebody to move right
here is gonna be separate.
Now I'm going to get the 2D movement direction.
So what we do is make a new variable called movement direction.
Now, I can call this movement direction.
I can call this a two D movement direction.
Terrible name.
Don't call it that.
What I can't do is call it 2D.
Movement direction.
Y.
There's this old piece of computer science, a bit of coding history.
When they were putting together the first engines, the first compilers that were, you know, what
they call not at the metal, not talking machine code.
When we start telling the computer, here's what I want you to do.
Please figure it out.
One of the problems we've got is how does the compiler know the difference between a variable or a function
or a value?
And one of the rules that came up with is that variables of functions cannot start with a number.
So this is fine.
Get movement, direction, movement direction is going to be equal to a new functional called get to
the movement direction.
I'm sure they copy that.
Making brand new function, which, in fact, you know what can probably live right here and take all
of this with it?
I'm going to move some of the stuff around, let's call it function.
And again, it has to be called get tuti movement direction, because this is not a valid function name.
And if he'd try it down here, you'll get the same problem.
I expect that I did fly out of function, et cetera, et cetera.
So if we're getting this cheating movement direction, we got to start by getting the X and the Z.
It is X and Z because we are using vector three here.
So I'm gonna get the forward back.
Left.
Right.
We've calculated that.
I'm very happy with that.
That won't do is not affect the motion directly.
I'll make a brand new motion.
Any variable, rather called movement direction.
And this doesn't need to be effective three.
Can be effective, too.
And I can get rid of that access entirely.
Now, I probably want to call this X and Z because doesn't make much difference.
We're dealing two dimensions.
Let's call them X and Y.
And that means face forward is going to need the same effect right there.
And I should probably change the face forward right here to X Y A, 10 to X Y.
All right.
Now, just before this move and slide.
I'm going to return the movement direction and I'm going to normalize it.
I don't be moving faster on the diagonal.
That means this moving slide no longer works.
Let's move that back up here.
Using altered up arrow into this function.
So now we're going to get the 2D movement direction.
Has set this as a vector to calculate what it is based on our inputs and bring it back.
Please note, I'm not putting a jump in.
We have no vertical movement.
If you wanted to, you'd also have to bring in your horizontal movement.
OK, let's make move work.
I need a couple more things.
I need to know the direction to the camera.
I'm going to call this direction to camp.
And that is effects of three.
Now, I want to make sure every frame that we've recalculated from scratch.
So I'm going to do effective three zero zero zero.
I've also discovered a really neat thing that I should have known about a year ago.
I only found this out recently.
Thank you, Bastion, for teach it to me.
If I look at vector three, we have constants.
I could have just done those.
So instead I'm doing vector three dot zero.
Are I to do the same thing down here on the motion vector three.
Dot zero.
OK.
Now let's get where the camera is.
Can you variable.
And I need the cameras transform.
It's positional information that's going to be called camera X form because it's slightly fossil's right
to transform.
And all we do is only get the camera dot global transform.
All right.
Once I have that, I need to start affecting the X and Y axis of my direction to camera.
So direction to camera.
And now I need to practice.
The camera X form and I need its basis ascui basis, dot, z, dot, normalize.
I only won't be dealing with normalized values here and I going to multiply it by the movement.
Dot x.
OK.
Now the same thing.
Direction to camera.
Minus equals camera X form dot basis.
And this is going to be X.
Please note we're dealing with X and Z here because this is three dimensional.
When we're dealing with two dimensional to three dimensional back, we have to keep an eye on this stuff.
That's can be normalized, normalized, multiplied by movement direction.
Dot.
And this is the why in this vector to.
I'm looking at this let's rename direction to Camp to Direction, because this is gonna be a little
bit easier to work with because now I'm going to take motion is equal to direction.
One more thing will do is change this line here on fifty instead of motion.
There's gonna be movement direction.
Will they need to change?
Movement is a vector too.
It can never be a vector three.
So let's just change that to vector 2.0.
All right.
As Pressplay pressing forward.
Pressing back.
Pressing left.
Pressing right.
OK, so left and right has to be reversed.
And that's going to be this one here.
One more time.
Forward, back.
Left, right.
Go turn the camera and the press forward, just using the mouse to steer the camera holding forward.
Look at that.
We now have two dimensional movement based on the cameras.
But you see this.
I can now fly.
I don't want to fly.
One more thing I need to do so well, I need to do is take this direction and change the why.
This is a vector three.
So why is up and set that to zero.
So one more time with feeling.
Forward.
Back.
Left.
Right.
Circle.
Strafe.
Look up.
Not flying.
Look down.
Go backwards.
Not flying.
Giant desk swirling around my head, and that is how we're going to make a very simple 3D movement based
on where the camera is looking, so.
Excellent work.
And I'll see you in the next video.